SETUP.md, before:

# Setup

## Fetching data

Download an OpenStreetMap data file, for example from https://download.geofabrik.de/europe.html. Store the file as `data/data.osm.pbf` (you can customize the filename with `OSM2PGSQL_DATAFILE`).

## Development

Import the data:
```shell
docker compose run --build import import
```
The import process will filter the file before importing it. The filtered file will be stored in the `data/filtered` directory, so future imports of the same data file can reuse the filtered data file.

Start the tile server:
```shell
docker compose up --build martin
```

Prepare and start the API:
```shell
api/prepare-api.sh
docker compose up api
```

Start the web server:
```shell
docker compose up --build martin-proxy
```

The OpenRailwayMap is now available on http://localhost:8000.

To ease development, Docker Compose can automatically rebuild containers when dependent files change. Enable *watch mode* with:
```shell
docker compose watch
```

## Deployment

Import the data:
```shell
docker compose run --build import import
```

Build the tiles:
```shell
export BBOX='-11.3818,35.8891,25.0488,70.0'
for tile in low-med high standard speed signals electrification; do
    env "TILES=$tile" docker compose up martin-cp
done
```

Build and deploy the tile server:
```shell
flyctl deploy --config martin-static.fly.toml --local-only
```

Build and deploy the API:
```shell
api/prepare-api.sh
flyctl deploy --config api.fly.toml --local-only api
```

Build and deploy the caching proxy:
```shell
flyctl deploy --config proxy.fly.toml --local-only
```

The OpenRailwayMap is now available on https://openrailwaymap.fly.dev.

## Tests

Tests use [*hurl*](https://hurl.dev/docs/installation.html).

Run tests against the API:

```shell
hurl --test --verbose --variable base_url=http://localhost:5000/api api/test/api.hurl
```

Run tests against the proxy:

```shell
hurl --test --verbose --variable base_url=http://localhost:8000 proxy/test/proxy.hurl
```

Run tests against the tiles:

```shell
hurl --test --verbose --variable base_url=http://localhost:3000 tiles/test/tiles.hurl
```

## Development

### Code generation

The YAML files in the `features` directory are templated into SQL and Lua code.

You can view the generated files:
```shell
docker build --target build-signals --tag build-signals --file import/Dockerfile . \
  && docker run --rm --entrypoint cat build-signals /build/signals_with_azimuth.sql | less

docker build --target build-lua --tag build-lua --file import/Dockerfile . \
  && docker run --rm --entrypoint cat build-lua /build/tags.lua | less

docker build --target build-styles --tag build-styles --file proxy.Dockerfile . \
  && docker run --rm --entrypoint ls build-styles

docker build --target build-styles --tag build-styles --file proxy.Dockerfile . \
  && docker run --rm --entrypoint cat build-styles standard.json | jq . | less
```

Commit message:

document --watch mode in Docker Compose

SETUP.md, after:

# Setup

## Fetching data

Download an OpenStreetMap data file, for example from https://download.geofabrik.de/europe.html. Store the file as `data/data.osm.pbf` (you can customize the filename with `OSM2PGSQL_DATAFILE`).

## Development

Import the data:
```shell
docker compose run --build import import
```
The import process will filter the file before importing it. The filtered file will be stored in the `data/filtered` directory, so future imports of the same data file can reuse the filtered data file.

Start the tile server:
```shell
docker compose up --build --watch martin
```

Prepare and start the API:
```shell
api/prepare-api.sh
docker compose up api
```

Start the web server:
```shell
docker compose up --build --watch martin-proxy
```

The OpenRailwayMap is now available on http://localhost:8000.

Docker Compose will automatically rebuild and restart the `martin` and `martin-proxy` containers if relevant files are modified.

## Deployment

Import the data:
```shell
docker compose run --build import import
```

Build the tiles:
```shell
export BBOX='-11.3818,35.8891,25.0488,70.0'
for tile in low-med high standard speed signals electrification; do
    env "TILES=$tile" docker compose up martin-cp
done
```

Build and deploy the tile server:
```shell
flyctl deploy --config martin-static.fly.toml --local-only
```

Build and deploy the API:
```shell
api/prepare-api.sh
flyctl deploy --config api.fly.toml --local-only api
```

Build and deploy the caching proxy:
```shell
flyctl deploy --config proxy.fly.toml --local-only
```

The OpenRailwayMap is now available on https://openrailwaymap.fly.dev.

## Tests

Tests use [*hurl*](https://hurl.dev/docs/installation.html).

Run tests against the API:

```shell
hurl --test --verbose --variable base_url=http://localhost:5000/api api/test/api.hurl
```

Run tests against the proxy:

```shell
hurl --test --verbose --variable base_url=http://localhost:8000 proxy/test/proxy.hurl
```

Run tests against the tiles:

```shell
hurl --test --verbose --variable base_url=http://localhost:3000 tiles/test/tiles.hurl
```

## Development

### Code generation

The YAML files in the `features` directory are templated into SQL and Lua code.

You can view the generated files:
```shell
docker build --target build-signals --tag build-signals --file import/Dockerfile . \
  && docker run --rm --entrypoint cat build-signals /build/signals_with_azimuth.sql | less

docker build --target build-lua --tag build-lua --file import/Dockerfile . \
  && docker run --rm --entrypoint cat build-lua /build/tags.lua | less

docker build --target build-styles --tag build-styles --file proxy.Dockerfile . \
  && docker run --rm --entrypoint ls build-styles

docker build --target build-styles --tag build-styles --file proxy.Dockerfile . \
  && docker run --rm --entrypoint cat build-styles standard.json | jq . | less
```
